=Current model Spanninga=

 # Panasonic backlight: Current consumption: 600µA idle, 23mA active
 # Batavus backlight: 
 * OFF=17µA@3V, ON=42mA@3V.
 * Three LEDs, Vf=2.42V

=Specifications=
 * Power supply: 2*NiMH in series (min. 2V)
 * Reverse polarity protection
 * Low current consumption in idle mode
 * Modes: always on - flicker - off
 * cheap
 * Small space to build it in -> limited number of components
 * must go out automatically after 1h
 * can only be lit in the dark

=Design= 
==Control circuit==
 * must operate down to 1.8V -> no more 74-series logic -> use low cost MCU
 * MCU must be brought into sleep mode, wake it with switch, external interrupt pin needed.
===Choice microcontroller===
||Atmel||attiny13||
||Microchip||	only down to 2V||
||ST||	only down to 3V, OTP-ROM||
||TI||MSP430, minimum 20pins||
||FreeScale||	MC9RS08KA1CSC||
||Renesas	(formerly Hitachi)||only downto 2.7V (20pins)||
||NXP||Not very interesting either||

Final choice: Atmel ATTiny13
 * I have experience with Atmel MCU
 * has a PWM-output
 * has a timer
 * has an internal oscillator (saves a crystal)
 * can be woken from external interrupt

==Switch==
 * use the one on the existing housing
 * must be debounced in software

==Reverse voltage protection==
 * use MOSFET instead of Schottky.  More voltage loss can't be tolerated
 * PMOS in series with Vcc or NMOS in series with Vss.
 * Choice = SI1013R by Vishay (€0.33/st.) (Ron=2.7ohm @ Vgs=-1.8V)

==Led powering==
Led must continue to light at the same strength even when the power supply drops.  So a current control circuit is needed.

===Options for led-controllers===
 # *LT1932*
  * ThinSOT-6
  * available at NewarkOnline: €4.57 + €25 cost (free samples)
  * 7 extra components needed (incl. LT1932 + led)
  * 100nA consumption in shutdown
  * shutdown-pin can be used for PWM-dimmer
  * max. 40mA current output
 # LM2623
  * Mini SO-8
  * available at Farnell: €2.44
  * 7 componenten needed (incl. LM2623 + led)
  * 2.5µA consumption in shutdown
  * can't be used a PWM-dimmer
 # TPS61041
  * SOT23-5
  * available at Farnell: €1.82
  * 6 componenten needed (incl. TPS61041 + led)
  * 1µA consumption in shutdown
 # ZXSC400
  * SOT23-6
  * 6 components needed
  * Available at Farnell: €1.11
  * 4.5µA consumption in shutdown
 # CAT4240-D
  * max. 300mA
  * Vin MIN=1.9V
  * available at Farnell
 # LT1618
  * max. 2A
  * Vin MIN=1.6V
  * available at Farnell
  * MSOP10
  * 100nA consumption in shutdown
  * Very hard to solder using Pb-free solder.

==Led==
Current led draws 25mA, type?, luminosity?

||Type||Manufacturer||Luminosity||Lightflux `[`lm`]`||Opening angle `[`°`]`|| Price`[`€`]` ||Current `[`mA`]`||
||OVL-3328||Multicomp||5000mcd@20mA||1.07||30°||
||OVA-1088||Multicomp||2700mcd@20mA||4.97||90°||0.96||20 (3leds ->3*20)||
||L-7676CSURC-E||Kingbright||600mcd@20mA|| ||70°||0.38||
||HPWT-MD00-00000||LumiLeds||4400mcd@70mA||3.5||70°||0.55||70||
||TLWR8900||Vishay|| ||3.0||45°|| ||70||
||NSPRR70ASS-E||Nichia|| ||9.0||100°|| ||50||
||OVFSRAC8||Optek|| ||8.0||100°||0.57||70||

===Choice===

 * better 3 `*` OVA1088 in series: 2 on each side, 1 signing backwards.
 * 3 `*` 90° = 270° viewing angle
 * Nichia gives most data in the datasheets. Their leds also have the best specs. But how can I order them?
 * As the Batavus tail light was changed, the LED's of that light will be kept.  Their package is standard 5mm-LED-package.
 
==Scientific data==

 * Lumen - Lux - Candela (see wiki)
 * It's better to specify to luminous flux to be independent of the opening angle.
 * Optimal led control: http://www.ledsmagazine.com/news/5/5/11
 * Japanese research: fCLK=60Hz, dutycycle=5% (Broca-Sulzer effect)
 * Brücke-Bartley effect (brightness enhancement): 8Hz - 10Hz (75ms - ON)